---
title: Swift
layout: post
postTitle:  Unicode
categories: strings_characters
---

Unicode
==============================

_Unicode_ is an international standard for encoding and representing text. It enables you to represent almost any character from any language in a standardized form, and to read and write those characters to and from an external source such as a text file or web page.

Swift’s String and Character types are fully Unicode-compliant. They support a number of different Unicode encodings, as described below.

### Unicode Terminology

Every character in Unicode can be represented by one or more unicode scalars. A unicode scalar is a unique 21-bit number (and name) for a character or modifier, such as U+0061 for LOWERCASE LATIN LETTER A ("a"), or U+1F425 for FRONT-FACING BABY CHICK ("🐥").

When a Unicode string is written to a text file or some other storage, these unicode scalars are encoded in one of several Unicode-defined formats. Each format encodes the string in small chunks known as code units. These include the UTF-8 format (which encodes a string as 8-bit code units) and the UTF-16 format (which encodes a string as 16-bit code units).

### Unicode Representations of Strings

Swift provides several different ways to access Unicode representations of strings.

You can iterate over the string with a for-in statement, to access its individual Character values as Unicode characters. This process is described in Working with Characters.

Alternatively, access a String value in one of three other Unicode-compliant representations:

+ A collection of UTF-8 code units (accessed with the string’s utf8 property)
+ A collection of UTF-16 code units (accessed with the string’s utf16 property)
+ A collection of 21-bit Unicode scalar values (accessed with the string’s unicodeScalars property)

Each example below shows a different representation of the following string, which is made up of the characters D, o, g, !, and the 🐶 character (DOG FACE, or Unicode scalar U+1F436):

let dogString = "Dog!🐶"

### UTF-8

You can access a UTF-8 representation of a String by iterating over its utf8 property. This property is of type UTF8View, which is a collection of unsigned 8-bit (UInt8) values, one for each byte in the string’s UTF-8 representation:

for codeUnit in dogString.utf8 {
    print("\(codeUnit) ")
}
print("\n")
// 68 111 103 33 240 159 144 182
In the example above, the first four decimal codeUnit values (68, 111, 103, 33) represent the characters D, o, g, and !, whose UTF-8 representation is the same as their ASCII representation. The last four codeUnit values (240, 159, 144, 182) are a four-byte UTF-8 representation of the DOG FACE character.

### UTF-16

You can access a UTF-16 representation of a String by iterating over its utf16 property. This property is of type UTF16View, which is a collection of unsigned 16-bit (UInt16) values, one for each 16-bit code unit in the string’s UTF-16 representation:

for codeUnit in dogString.utf16 {
    print("\(codeUnit) ")
}
print("\n")
// 68 111 103 33 55357 56374
Again, the first four codeUnit values (68, 111, 103, 33) represent the characters D, o, g, and !, whose UTF-16 code units have the same values as in the string’s UTF-8 representation.

The fifth and sixth codeUnit values (55357 and 56374) are a UTF-16 surrogate pair representation of the DOG FACE character. These values are a lead surrogate value of U+D83D (decimal value 55357) and a trail surrogate value of U+DC36 (decimal value 56374).

### Unicode Scalars

You can access a Unicode scalar representation of a String value by iterating over its unicodeScalars property. This property is of type UnicodeScalarView, which is a collection of values of type UnicodeScalar. A Unicode scalar is any 21-bit Unicode code point that is not a lead surrogate or trail surrogate code point.

Each UnicodeScalar has a value property that returns the scalar’s 21-bit value, represented within a UInt32 value:

for scalar in dogString.unicodeScalars {
    print("\(scalar.value) ")
}
print("\n")
// 68 111 103 33 128054

The value properties for the first four UnicodeScalar values (68, 111, 103, 33) once again represent the characters D, o, g, and !. The value property of the fifth and final UnicodeScalar, 128054, is a decimal equivalent of the hexadecimal value 1F436, which is equivalent to the Unicode scalar U+1F436 for the DOG FACE character.

As an alternative to querying their value properties, each UnicodeScalar value can also be used to construct a new String value, such as with string interpolation:

for scalar in dogString.unicodeScalars {
    println("\(scalar) ")
}
// D
// o
// g
// !
// 🐶