---
title: Swift
layout: post
postTitle:  For Loops
categories: control_flow
---

## For ループ

for ループは、ステートメントのまとまりを何回か繰り返します。
Swift には２種類の　for ループがあります。

+ for-in 
+ for-condition-increment 


### For-In

for-in ループは 項目の集まり（数字の範囲、配列の中の項目、文字列の中の文字など）に対して
繰り返し命令の塊を実行します

{% highlight c linenos %}
for index in 1...5 {
    println("\(index) times 5 is \(index * 5)")
}
// 1 times 5 is 5
// 2 times 5 is 10
// 3 times 5 is 15
// 4 times 5 is 20
// 5 times 5 is 25
{% endhighlight %}

上記の例では、　index は定数で、その値はループが繰り返される最初の時点で自動的にセットされます。
使う前に宣言する必要はありません。　
let キーワードで宣言することなくループの宣言の中で暗黙のうちに宣言されています。　

<div class="panel">
	<div class="panel-heading">NOTE</div>
		定数　index は、　ループの中だけで存在します。　
		ループが終わった後にその値を調べたり、変数として使いたのであれば、
		ループの中で使う前に、宣言する必要があります。
</div>


範囲の値を使う必要がないのなら、　変数名の代わりに　アンダースコア使って、その値を無視できます。

{% highlight c linenos %}
let base = 3
let power = 10
var answer = 1
for _ in 1...power {
    answer *= base
}
println("\(base) to the power of \(power) is \(answer)")
// prints "3 to the power of 10 is 59049"
{% endhighlight %}

This example calculates the value of one number to the power of another (in this case, 3 to the power of 10). It multiplies a starting value of 1 (that is, 3 to the power of 0) by 3, ten times, using a half-closed loop that starts with 0 and ends with 9. This calculation doesn’t need to know the individual counter values each time through the loop—it simply needs to execute the loop the correct number of times. The underscore character _ (used in place of a loop variable) causes the individual values to be ignored and does not provide access to the current value during each iteration of the loop.

Use the for-in loop with an array to iterate over its items:

let names = ["Anna", "Alex", "Brian", "Jack"]
for name in names {
    println("Hello, \(name)!")
}
// Hello, Anna!
// Hello, Alex!
// Hello, Brian!
// Hello, Jack!
You can also iterate over a dictionary to access its key-value pairs. Each item in the dictionary is returned as a (key, value) tuple when the dictionary is iterated, and you can decompose the (key, value) tuple’s members as explicitly named constants for use within in the body of the for-in loop. Here, the dictionary’s keys are decomposed into a constant called animalName, and the dictionary’s values are decomposed into a constant called legCount:

let numberOfLegs = ["spider": 8, "ant": 6, "cat": 4]
for (animalName, legCount) in numberOfLegs {
    println("\(animalName)s have \(legCount) legs")
}
// spiders have 8 legs
// ants have 6 legs
// cats have 4 legs
Items in a Dictionary may not necessarily be iterated in the same order as they were inserted. The contents of a Dictionary are inherently unordered, and iterating over them does not guarantee the order in which they will be retrieved. For more on arrays and dictionaries, see Collection Types.)

In addition to arrays and dictionaries, you can also use the for-in loop to iterate over the Character values in a string:

for character in "Hello" {
    println(character)
}
// H
// e
// l
// l
// o

### For-Condition-Increment

In addition to for-in loops, Swift supports traditional C-style for loops with a condition and an incrementer:

for var index = 0; index < 3; ++index {
    println("index is \(index)")
}
// index is 0
// index is 1
// index is 2
Here’s the general form of this loop format:

for initialization; condition; increment {
    statements
}
Semicolons separate the three parts of the loop’s definition, as in C. However, unlike C, Swift doesn’t need parentheses around the entire “initialization; condition; increment” block.

The loop is executed as follows:

When the loop is first entered, the initialization expression is evaluated once, to set up any constants or variables that are needed for the loop.
The condition expression is evaluated. If it evaluates to false, the loop ends, and code execution continues after the for loop’s closing brace (}). If the expression evaluates to true, code execution continues by executing the statements inside the braces.
After all statements are executed, the increment expression is evaluated. It might increase or decrease the value of a counter, or set one of the initialized variables to a new value based on the outcome of the statements. After the increment expression has been evaluated, execution returns to step 2, and the condition expression is evaluated again.
The loop format and execution process described above is shorthand for (and equivalent to) the outline below:

initialization
while condition {
    statements
    increment
}
Constants and variables declared within the initialization expression (such as var index = 0) are only valid within the scope of the for loop itself. To retrieve the final value of index after the loop ends, you must declare index before the loop’s scope begins:

var index: Int
for index = 0; index < 3; ++index {
    println("index is \(index)")
}
// index is 0
// index is 1
// index is 2
println("The loop statements were executed \(index) times")
// prints "The loop statements were executed 3 times"
Note that the final value of index after this loop is completed is 3, not 2. The last time the increment statement ++index is called, it sets index to 3, which causes index < 3 to equate to false, ending the loop.

While Loops